Before the Court is a Motion for Summary Judgment (Rec. Doc. 60) filed by Defendant, Stewart Title Guaranty Company (""STG""). Plaintiff, BJD Properties, LLC (""BJD""), has filed an opposition. (Rec. Doc. 73). Considering the Motion, the record, and the law, the Court finds the Motion should be GRANTED in part and DENIED in part .
FACTS AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
This is a dispute over STG's obligations pursuant to a Policy of Title Insurance (the ""Policy"") issued by STG to BJD, covering a parcel of enclosed land. To understand the contract issue at hand, it is necessary to understand the history of the property at the heart of this case. BJD purchased the tract, 27.864 acres of undeveloped land in St. Landry Parish, Louisiana (the ""Property""), on December 14, 2006. The sale document, labeled as a ""Cash Sale,"" notes the sellers to be three married couples: John L. Olivier and Julie Ann Brinkhaus Olivier; Joseph F. Olivier and Billie Gay Olivier; and George R. Ramier and Eleanor Olivier Ramier (collectively, the ""Oliviers""). A plat is attached to the Cash Sale; it shows the 27-acre plot to be a rectangle. (See Appendix). A subdivision, Coteau Lakes Estates, runs along its western boundary. To its east are ""Lot 6 John Olivier Partition"" and ""Lot 7 John Olivier Partition."" At the top of the plat, running east-west, is Louisiana Highway 93. Immediately below the highway there is a tract, ""Lot 9 John Olivier Partition."" Below that there is ""Lot 8 John Olivier Partition."" The Property lies immediately below Lot 8 of the Olivier partition. Two other tracts of land form the Property's southern border. Thus, the Property does not abut any public roads or utilities; it is enclosed.
The Cash Sale makes no mention of BJD's right of access to the Property. BJD was evidently unconcerned with the issue in 2006 because BJD purchased the Property from the Oliviers with intent to make it the 68-lot ""Phase II"" expansion of the existing Coteau Lakes subdivision. Buller Juneau Properties, LLC-an entity that, as its name suggests, shares a mostly overlapping membership with BJD-owns Lot 16 of the original ""Phase I"" development. Lot 16, touching the Property's western border as it does, offers a potential means accessing the Property because one can drive down Grand Lake Drive in Coteau Lakes, onto a dirt road extending through Lot 16, and into the Property. According to BJD, it and Buller Juneau Properties, LLC at some point entered into ""an oral servitude agreement"" allowing BJD access through Lot 16.
Despite a promising start, ""Phase II"" never materialized as anticipated. The local real estate market declined, there was a recession, and in 2010 FEMA rezoned the entire Property from Flood Zone ""C"" to ""A,"" a marked increase in flood risk designation. BJD determined it would not be cost effective to raise the entire Property in order to sell lots in the manner it had planned; instead, BJD decided it would elevate a few large plots and sell those at a higher price point. On November 18, 2015, BJD sold a 12-acre tract on the western side of the Property to Nicholas and Christen Patin for $ 135,000. BJD and the Patins agreed to split the cost of an access road through Lot 16, which would allow the Patins to access their tract and BJD access to the remainder of the Property. BJD began construction of a road through Lot 16 in late 2015.
In January of 2016, the Coteau Lakes homeowners association (""HOA"") and certain homeowners in the Phase I development demanded that Lot 16 not be used to access the Property, arguing that such use violated subdivision restrictions-restrictions drafted in part by members of BJD. Although the Policy insured for losses for a lack of right of access, BJD did not inform STG of the developing access dispute. The next month, the HOA and homeowners filed suit against Buller Juneau Properties, LLC in the 27th Judicial District Court of St. Landry Parish, Louisiana. The homeowners sought to enjoin the road construction for violating the subdivision restrictions. On June 28, 2016, the state court agreed with the homeowners that the road construction constituted a ""commercial use"" of Lot 16-and not a residential use, which was allowed under the restrictions-and granted the injunction.
In a demand letter dated July 12, 2016, the Patins demanded their $ 135,000 purchase price be returned to them due to the apparent lack of access. Two days later, on July 14, 2016, BJD informed STG of the adverse state court decision for the first time and gave notice it intended to file a claim under the Policy. The Policy states:
[STG] insures ... against loss or damage, not exceeding the Amount of Insurance stated in Schedule A [$ 1,050,000], sustained or incurred by the insured by reason of:
1. Title to the estate or interest described in Schedule A being vested other than as stated therein;
2. Any defect in or lien or encumbrance on the title;
3. Unmarketability of the title;
4. Lack of a right of access to and from the land.
The Policy gives options to STG for how it will resolve title and access issues. For example, pursuant to Section 6(b), STG may pay or otherwise settle with third parties on BJD's behalf, or it may pay or settle with BJD for losses or damages provided for by the policy, including fees and expenses that were authorized by STG. Alternatively, if STG ""cures the lack of a right of access to or from the land in a reasonably diligent manner by any method ... it shall have fully performed its obligations with respect to that matter and shall not be liable for any loss or damage caused thereby."" Another provision of the limitation of liability section states STG ""shall not be liable for loss or damage to any insured for liability voluntarily assumed by the insured in settling any claim or suit without the prior written consent of [STG].""
After BJD filed its claim, STG hired attorney Hansel Harlan to assist BJD in obtaining access to the Property. STG claims that although ""Harlan raised alternative access routes that could cure BJD's alleged lack of access, BJD has consistently stonewalled STG's cure efforts.""
On September 8, 2016, BJD returned the $ 135,000 purchase price to the Patins without consultation or consent of STG because BJD felt this was the right thing to do. Then, on November 16, 2016, BJD sued STG in state court, claiming it had suffered damages because it has no right to access the Property. STG removed the case to the Western District Court of Louisiana on the basis of diversity jurisdiction. STG then filed a 12(b)(6) motion against BJD, arguing the case should be dismissed because BJD has a right of access pursuant to La. Civ. Code art. 694. Judge Doherty denied the motion by adopting the Report and Recommendation of the Magistrate Judge, which found that although BJD had a claim of right to access pursuant to either La. Civ. Code. arts. 689 or 694, this was not equivalent to an actual right to access the public road. The Magistrate Judge concluded the ""property in question is enclosed with no access to a public road."" The case was then reassigned to the undersigned judge, and STG filed its motion for summary judgment.
STANDARD OF LAW
Summary judgment is appropriate when ""the pleadings, the discovery and disclosure materials on file, and any affidavits show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law."" Celotex Corp. v. Catrett , 477 U.S. 317, 322, 106 S.Ct. 2548, 91 L.Ed.2d 265 (1986) (citing Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(c) ), Little v. Liquid Air Corp. , 37 F.3d 1069, 1075 (5th Cir. 1994). When assessing whether a dispute as to any material fact exists, a court considers ""all of the evidence in the record but refrains from making credibility determinations or weighing the evidence."" Delta & Pine Land Co. v. Nationwide Agribusiness Ins. Co. , 530 F.3d 395, 398 (5th Cir. 2008). All reasonable inferences are drawn in favor of the nonmoving party, but a party cannot defeat summary judgment with conclusory allegations or unsubstantiated assertions. Little , 37 F.3d at 1075. A court ultimately must be satisfied that ""a reasonable jury could not return a verdict for the nonmoving party."" Delta , 530 F.3d at 399.
If the dispositive issue is one on which the moving party will bear the burden of proof at trial, the moving party ""must come forward with evidence which would 'entitle it to a directed verdict if the evidence went uncontroverted at trial.' "" Int'l Shortstop, Inc. v. Rally's, Inc. , 939 F.2d 1257, 1264-65 (5th Cir. 1991). The nonmoving party can then defeat the motion by either countering with sufficient evidence of its own, or ""showing that the moving party's evidence is so sheer that it may not persuade the reasonable fact-finder to return a verdict in favor of the moving party."" Id. at 1265.
If the dispositive issue is one on which the nonmoving party will bear the burden of proof at trial, the moving party may satisfy its burden by merely pointing out that the evidence in the record is insufficient with respect to an essential element of the nonmoving party's claim. See Celotex , 477 U.S. at 325, 106 S.Ct. 2548. The burden then shifts to the nonmoving party, who must, by submitting or referring to evidence, set out specific facts showing that a genuine issue exists. See id. at 324, 106 S.Ct. 2548. The nonmovant may not rest upon the pleadings but must identify specific facts that establish a genuine issue for trial. See, e.g. , id. at 325, 106 S.Ct. 2548, Little , 37 F.3d at 1075.
When examining matters of state law, this Court will employ the principles of interpretation used by the state's highest court. Am. Int'l Specialty Lines Ins. Co. v. Rentech Steel LLC , 620 F.3d 558, 564 (5th Cir. 2010). Mindful of Louisiana's distinction between primary and secondary sources of law, the Court will begin its analyses with reliance on the Louisiana Constitution and statutes before looking to ""jurisprudence, doctrine, conventional usages, and equity, [which] may guide the court in reaching a decision in the absence of legislation and custom."" Shaw Constructors v. ICF Kaiser Eng'rs, Inc. , 395 F.3d 533, 547 (5th Cir. 2004) (quoting La. Civ. Code. art. 1 rev. cmt. b). If the Court must make an ""Erie guess"" on an issue of Louisiana law, the Court will decide the issue the way that it believes the Supreme Court of Louisiana would decide it. Id. (citation omitted). This Court is not strictly bound by the decisions of the state intermediate courts and will disregard them if the Court is ""convinced that the Louisiana Supreme Court would decide otherwise."" In re Katrina Canal Breaches Litig. , 495 F.3d 191, 206 (5th Cir. 2007).
DISCUSSION
What the parties have asked the Court to do in this case is to determine the nature and scope of STG's promise of indemnification to BJD. By the terms of the Policy, in exchange for a small percentage of the purchase price of the land, STG obligated itself to compensate BJD for actual losses resulting from: BJD's ownership of the parcel being other than the tract's description in the Policy's schedule; defective, encumbered, or unmarketable title; or BJD's lack of a legal right to enter or leave the Property by reasonable means.
None of the above coverage obligations amount to a promise that BJD would be able to use the land in exactly the manner that it expected. Nor by undertaking the last coverage obligation did STG promise to provide BJD any particular means of access. The single coverage provision at issue in this case states that ""[STG] insures ... against loss or damage ... incurred by the insured by reason of ... [l]ack of a right of access to and from the land."" As the Court explains below, any damages resulting from BJD's lack of preferred access are not recoverable. However, as it is undisputed that BJD lacks any access, the Court must decide whether this could result in a diminution in the value of the Property that is covered as a loss under the Policy.
I. ONLY THE RIGHT OF ACCESS COVERAGE PROVISION IS AT ISSUE
Although the Policy explicitly covers for losses sustained by reason of ""lack of a right of access to and from the land,"" BJD insists that the immediately preceding provision indemnifying for losses incurred from ""[u]marketabililty of the title"" is also triggered. The Court disagrees.
First of all, to read the unmarketability of title provision to subsume protection from losses for lack of right of access would render the last of the four enumerated coverages superfluous. ""Louisiana law provides that an insurance policy is a contract between the parties and should be construed using the general rules of contract interpretation set forth in the Louisiana Civil Code."" First Am. Bank v. First Am. Transp. Title Ins. Co. , 585 F.3d 833, 837 (5th Cir. 2009). And Louisiana courts typically find interpretations of a contract that render language superfluous to be unreasonable. See, e.g. , Smith v. W. World Ins. Co. , 134 So. 3d 1198, 1200 (La. App. 3d Cir. 2014). While the Louisiana Supreme Court has held that contract language that is ambiguous ""must be construed in favor of the insured,"" the Court does not find this term to be ambiguous. Quinlan v. Liberty Bank and Tr. Co. , 575 So.2d 336, 344 (La. 1990), on reh'g (Mar. 11, 1991). Indeed, it is defined; ""unmarketability of the title"" is:
[a]n alleged or apparent matter affecting the title to the land, not excluded or excepted from coverage, which would entitle a purchaser of the estate or interest described in Schedule A to be released from the obligation to purchase by virtue of a contractual condition requiring the delivery of marketable title.
When the Tenth Circuit considered this language under near-identical facts, it concluded that the unmarketability provision was not triggered because the quoted language refers to ""defects affecting rights of ownership-i.e., defects in title-rather than defects affecting the physical condition or use of the covered property."" Fid. Natl. Title Ins. Co. v. Woody Creek Ventures, LLC , 830 F.3d 1209, 1218 (10th Cir. 2016). The Tenth Circuit's reasoning in Woody Creek provides a second reason for finding the unmarketability of title provision does not indemnify for lack of a right of access.
In Woody Creek the insured was a subdivision developer who bought two tracts of land separated by another tract of land owned by a third party. Id. at 1210. The developer assumed that it had a right of access between the parcels via a roadway crossing this intervening tract. A prospective buyer of a subdivision lot expressed concern regarding access, and the developer discovered it in fact had no legal right of access through the roadway to the remote parcel. The developer filed a claim against its title insurer, alleging that the lack of a right of access had diminished the value of the remote parcel by $ 7,000,000. While the claim was processed, the buyer backed out of the sale. Id. The insurer filed a quiet title action against the intervening tract owner but dismissed the suit after the insurer was able to negotiate a 30-year revocable right-of-way grant for the developer. Id. at 1210-11.
The developer argued that the temporary right of access left its title unmarketable, as evidenced by the fact that the developer had not been able to sell any of the lots ""due to the lack of permanent access."" Id. at 1215. The Tenth Circuit acknowledged that the eventual expiration of the right of access made the remote tract less valuable, but the Court determined this loss of value was an issue of the marketability of the land and not the title. Id. at 1217. The Court quoted from a popular treatise for a statement of the rule:
The fact that a given property suffers from 'economic' lack of marketability, which relates to physical conditions affecting the use of the property or other non-title matters, is not relevant to title insurance coverage. In essence, defects which merely diminish the value of the property, as opposed to defects which adversely affect a clear title to the property, will not render title unmarketable within the meaning and coverage of a policy insuring against unmarketable title. This is often expressed by the principle that one can hold perfect title to land that is valueless and one can have ""marketable title"" to land while the land itself is unmarketable.
Id. (quoting 11 Couch on Insurance § 159:7 (3d ed. Supp. 2015) ). Depending on this distinction, the Court affirmed the district court's opinion that lack of permanent access did not render the insured's title unmarketable, despite a loss of economic value. Id. at 1218.
Although the Tenth Circuit was interpreting Colorado law, the Court's decision was an ""Erie guess,"" based on a line of authority making the same distinction that the Tenth Circuit drew. Id. The Court is not aware of any Louisiana authority contradicting the notion that lack of access is not ""a 'defect' in the title to the property."" See 11 Couch on Insurance § 159:59 (3d ed. Supp. 2015). Certainly, the parties have not identified any decision by the Louisiana Supreme Court ruling on the issue. Accordingly, the Court is persuaded that the Louisiana Supreme Court would find that an unmarketability of title provision does not provide overlapping coverage with a lack of a right access provision for the same reasons espoused by the Tenth Circuit in Woody Creek.
II. BJD IS ONLY ENTITLED TO ACTUAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM A LACK OF A RIGHT OF ACCESS
If BJD is entitled to damages, it is through the coverage provision explicitly indemnifying against losses resulting from a lack of access to the Property. Critically, the parties agree that the Property is enclosed; left unresolved is the issue of whether BJD has suffered any compensable losses.
Title insurance policies tend to use the same language and they tend to function in the same manner. They are ""agreement[s] to indemnify."" Barlow Burke, Law of Title Ins. § 2.01 (3rd ed. 2019 supp.). As the Policy itself recognizes: the ""policy is a contract of indemnity against actual monetary loss or damage."" This language is intended to signify that the policy is not a guarantee that some contingency insured for will not occur, but that if one does occur, the insurer will compensate its insured for the insured's losses. In the words of Prof. Burke, ""An indemnity is thus a collateral contract, by which the indemnitor or insurer agrees to reimburse another (the indemnitee or insured) against a third party's actions."" Id. This notion that indemnity contracts require an insurer only to recompense costs compelled by third parties is accepted as a matter of Louisiana law. The Louisiana Supreme Court recognized the limited obligation of an insurer under indemnity contracts when it compared them to general liability policies:
Under a liability policy ... the insurer is required to make payment although the insured has not yet suffered any loss, for by definition the purpose of the liability policy is to shield the insured from being required to make any payment on the claim for which he is liable. Under an indemnity contract, by way of contrast, the insurer is only required to indemnify or make whole the insured after he has sustained actual loss, meaning after the insured has paid or been compelled to make a payment, his action against the insurer then being to recover the amount of such loss by way of indemnity....
The general distinction ... is that if the policy is one against liability, the coverage thereunder attaches when the liability attaches, regardless of actual loss at that time; but if the policy is one of indemnity only, an action against the insurer does not lie until an actual loss in the discharge of the liability is sustained by the insured.
Quinlan , 575 So. 2d 336, 348-49.
As a consequence of their function as indemnity agreements, title policies do not obligate insurers to pay merely because the insured can point to some defect of title it has discovered. Joyce Palomar, 1 Title Ins. Law § 10:8 (2018 ed.). The defect must actually result in a loss. Id. Courts across jurisdictions have struggled with this ""actual loss"" concept and have come to different conclusions as to what it is and when it occurs. The Seventh Circuit recognized nearly thirty years ago that ""the law is thin."" Allison v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. , 907 F.2d 645, 652 (7th Cir. 1990).
The law has since filled out some in other jurisdictions but it remains undeveloped in Louisiana. Finding that the Policy at issue in this case is an agreement to indemnify, the Court must still determine whether BJD has claimed ""actual losses"" that are within the coverage of the Policy and are not subject to a coverage exception or exemption.
a. BJD Cannot Recover Damages Incurred Because BJD Lacks Its Preferred Right of Access
First and foremost, BJD argues the Property has lost value because BJD
has no right of access from Coteau Estates. BJD has obtained two experts who have created reports calculating how much this loss amounts to. Each of these experts is the subject of motions in limine pending before the Court. Kenneth Boagni, III, a civil engineer, generated two Opinions of Probable Cost-line item sheets detailing the costs of installing street and utility improvements for BJD's proposed subdivision. Opinion 1, estimates the cost of building public road and utility access westward through Lot 16: $ 67,343.40. Opinion 2, estimates the costs of building that same infrastructure northward, across the Oliviers' property to Highway 93: $ 345,222.40.
BJD's second expert, Thompson Bradford Core, a professional real estate appraiser, input these estimates into his own expert report in which he appraises the value of Property with access to Coteau Estates and with access to Highway 93. According to Core, if the Property is accessible through Lot 16, it can be developed as a subdivision and the Property's value is $ 327,000. If access must be from Highway 93, then the infrastructure costs estimated by Boagni make a subdivision economically unfeasible, and the Property is only good for recreational or agricultural purposes; its value then is only $ 83,500. It is on the basis these expert opinions that BJD argues it has suffered an actual loss in the amount of $ 243,500.
The Court finds the alleged $ 243,500 diminution in the Property's value is not an actual loss covered under the Policy. BJD is attempting to recover for losses incurred not because BJD lacks access to the Property; rather, BJD assumes STG will obtain an alternate route of access and is asserting it has incurred losses because it does not have its preferred route of access. Typically, title insurance policies insuring a legal right of access ""do not insure access by any particular physical route."" Palomar, supra , § 5:8 (collecting cases), Burke, supra , § 3.06 (""That the means of access is not what the insured expected or desired, is irrelevant.""); see also Woody Creek , 830 F.3d at 1213. In the words of the First Circuit, ""read according to its terms, the policy does not cover a lawsuit whose gravamen is the promise of something different from and more valuable than a generic right of access."" United Bank v. Chicago Title Ins. Co. , 168 F.3d 37, 39 (1st Cir. 1999).
If the parties intended the Policy to insure a particular right of access, one would expect the Policy would describe that route somewhere in the Policy. Indeed, the Policy includes the attached Schedule A, which describes the Property in basic detail. The first coverage provision of the Policy indemnifies against losses by reason of the ""Title to the estate or interest described in Schedule A being vested other than as stated therein."" By describing a right of way through Lot 16 in Schedule A and cross referencing it in the right of access coverage provision, the parties could have signified their intent that STG was to indemnify BJD for losses resulting from access not being granted through the described route. In that case the Court could compare the value of the Property with the right of access that had been insured for with the value of the Property with the right of access that BJD in fact has.
However, that is not how the parties contracted. Instead, the Policy states that STG shall indemnify BJD for losses incurred by reason of ""[l]ack of a right of access."" The indiscriminate ""a"" signals that the insured will be compensated if the insured suffers a loss because it does not have any legal right to access the Property. The Policy, taken as a whole, makes this point obvious. The limitation of liability section allows that if STG ""cures the lack of a right of access to and from the land ... in a reasonably diligent manner by any method ... it shall not be liable for any loss or damage caused thereby."" By the terms of the Policy then, STG can satisfy its Policy obligation by simply providing BJD an alternative means of accessing the Property. See Woody Creek , 830 F.3d at 1215 (finding insurer was not liable for subdivision developer's losses because insurer negotiated for a revocable 30-year right-of-way grant). It does not make sense, then, that the Policy would recognize damages incurred because a preferred right-of-way was not available. If STG obtained the right-of-way through the Oliviers' property-which BJD's experts use as a basis for their damages calculations-then STG is not liable for paying any damages to BJD.
To be sure, BJD has suffered a loss because its development plan has fallen through. However, ""[BJD's] loss is attributable to some other fortuities concerning [the Property], none of which were insured against by [STG]."" In re W. Feliciana Acq., L.L.C. , 744 F.3d 352, 358 (5th Cir. 2014). Thus, the Court holds that BJD cannot recover under the Policy merely because an alternative form of access may require a more expensive investment in infrastructure, even if the infrastructure cost is so expensive so as to prohibit BJD's intended use for the Property.
b. Return of the Patin's Purchase Price
BJD suggests it also suffered actual damages when it returned the $ 135,000 purchase price to the Patins. After an injunction blocked access through Lot 16, the Patins sent BJD a 1-sentence demand later dated July 12, 2016, urging, ""Due to access not being granted to the 12 acres we purchased in November 2015, we demand our money back in full at $ 135,000 at your earliest convenience."" BJD complied with this demand, evidently because BJD's members felt it was the right thing to do. BJD alleges it financed the $ 135,000 repayment through a mortgage, which has cost BJD $ 11,821.38 in interest payments. BJD does not dispute that it took out the mortgage and returned the $ 135,000 purchase price to the Patins without consulting or obtaining the consent of STG. This is significant because Section 9 of the Policy states STG ""shall not be liable for loss or damage to any insured for liability voluntarily assumed by the insured in settling any claim or suit without the prior written consent of [STG].""
BJD asserts that satisfying the Patins' demand for $ 135,000 did not ""settle"" a ""claim"" or ""suit,"" therefore, the coverage exception is inapplicable. ""Because the policy does not define 'claim,' this court refers to its ordinary meaning."" Hartman v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. , 1996 U.S. App. LEXIS 45372, *10 (5th Cir. 1996) (citing Constitution State Ins. Co. v. Iso-Tex , 61 F.3d 405, 407 (5th Cir. 1995) ). In plain English, a ""claim"" is ""a demand for something due or believed to be due (insurance ~)."" Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary 210 (10th ed. 1993). More specifically, a claim is ""[a] demand for money, property, or a legal remedy to which one asserts a right; esp., the part of a complaint in a civil action specifying what relief the plaintiff asks for."" Claim , Black's Law Dictionary (10th ed. 2014) (alternatively, an assertion of ""any right to payment or to an equitable remedy, even if contingent or provisional""). Thus, by demanding money from BJD the Patins believed they were owed, the Patins made a ""claim"" upon BJD.
BJD suggests that the Patins' demand was no ""claim,"" because ""BJD was under no legal obligation to repurchase the Property."" This is a rather incredible argument. BJD is asserting that its insurer should reimburse it for a gratuitous expense that BJD could not be made to pay. This argument flies in the face of the purpose of the ""consent to settle"" provision in particular and of indemnity contracts in general. The coverage exception exists to ""prevent the insured from voluntarily and prematurely assuming responsibility for a loss that may not attach to the insurer."" Burke, supra , § 6.18. Even without this applicable coverage exception, the Court questions how a gratuitous payment would constitute an ""actual loss"" contemplated by the Policy. BJD cannot recover costs it voluntarily expended in returning the Patins' purchase money. BJD should carry the cost of its good deed in place of its insurer.
c. Cost of Developing Lot 16
BJD also states it incurred ""expenses for dirt work for the road across Lot 16 ($ 20,000), maintenance expenses ($ 1,100), and plowing costs ($ 1,000) in connection with its preparation to develop the Property beginning in late 2015, as well as 'loss-of-use' damages resulting from its inability to develop it."" BJD cites to no provision of the Policy, nor any legal authority, which suggests STG, as title insurer, is liable for these infrastructure or loss-of-use costs. Accordingly, the Court finds them not to be recoverable under the Policy.
d. Litigation Expenses
Finally, BJD claims it has suffered expert, court, and deposition costs in this litigation. As STG notes, these costs are recoverable only if the insured can show that the insurer operated in bad faith in handling a claim on the policy. See La. R.S. §§ 22:1892, 22:1973. In its complaint, BJD summarily alleges that STG acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner in handling its claim; this constitutes bad faith in Louisiana. See La. R.S. §§ 22:1892, 1973.
An insurer does not act arbitrarily or capriciously if it refuses to pay a claim because of a genuine dispute over coverage or the amount of the loss. In re Chinese Manufactured Drywall Products Liab. Litig. , 759 F. Supp. 2d 822, 853 (E.D. La. 2010) (citing Reed v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. , 857 So.2d 1012, 1021 (La. 2003) ). Given that the Court has found that the Plaintiff's asserted losses are not within the scope of coverage of the Policy, STG did not act arbitrarily or capriciously in denying BJD's claim. In any case, BJD has failed to point to any evidence in the record of STG's alleged bad faith. See id.
e. Diminution of Value from Any Lack of Access
Thus, none of the categories of damages enumerated by the insured are recoverable under the Policy. This is perhaps a curious result for a case where the parties agree that (1) lack of access is covered under the title insurance policy, (2) there is a lack of access, and (3) damages can be properly calculated through a diminution of value analysis. Given these three accepted truths, it would seem that the only thing left to do would be to compare the value of the Property with a right to access to the value of the Property without any right to access. Presumably, the difference in these two valuations would approximate the cost of curing the access problem.
Were it so easy. The insurer and insured debate whether the Property's alleged diminution of value constitutes an actual loss at this time. STG argues that it is not yet obligated to compensate BJD because the loss has not yet been realized. STG claims, as have other national title insurers, that pursuant to the ""actual loss"" limitation, it is not obligated to indemnify BJD for the loss of value of the Property until after BJD has realized the loss by purchasing a right of access or by selling the property at a loss. See Sattler v. Philadelphia Title Ins. Co. , 192 Pa.Super. 337, 162 A.2d 22, 25 (1960) (finding plaintiff could not recover under policy because he did not prove claimed clouds on his title had resulted in actual monetary losses), Eliopoulos v. Nation's Title Ins. of New York, Inc. , 912 F. Supp. 28, 34 (N.D.N.Y. 1996) (accord).
This interpretation of the Policy's language, that ""actual loss"" occurs only with the expenditure of out-of-pocket payment, has been rejected by a number of jurisdictions. See, e.g. , Miebach v. Safeco Title Ins. Co. , 49 Wash.App. 451, 743 P.2d 845, 846 (1987) (concluding that ""actual loss"" term is ambiguous and must be construed in favor of the insurer, i.e., more broadly than only out-of-pocket expenses). According to one commentator, the majority rule is ""that doubt as to the status of the title can immediately cost an insured owner the freedom to develop, sell, or mortgage property."" Palomar, supra , § 6:19. Basically, the insured-friendly construction is that an insured experiences an ""actual loss"" if a defect or encumbrance would make the property of less value to a potential purchaser of the property. Id.
If the Court were to adopt the out-of-pocket interpretation of ""actual loss,"" the result here would be that although BJD's Property may have lost some value from being enclosed, the loss has not yet realized through some transaction, and STG owes no duty to indemnify. This would not be a finding that STG has discharged its obligations under the Policy, and the Court does not think it would result in ""illusory coverage,"" as BJD suggests. However, it would put the onus on BJD to take some action to realize the loss-either sell the Property or purchase a right of access. At that point, damages could be totaled by simply reviewing the actual money expended to cure or by calculating the difference between the actual sale price and the fair market price of the Property with access. Alternatively, STG could exercise its option to cure the lack of access.
If the Court were to adopt the majority rule, the result would be that BJD may argue at trial that its lack of a right of access has diminished the value of the property. STG complains that it has elected to cure access, but that option is cabined by the requirement that it be performed in a ""reasonably diligent manner"" and two and a half years past STG's notification of the access problem and BJD still has no legal right of access. Arguably, STG has had fair opportunity to exercise its option already.
The Parties have not cited to any Louisiana case clearly adopting either interpretation and the Court's own survey of Louisiana caselaw has likewise been unfruitful. To the Court, the term ""actual loss"" is capable of reasonably supporting either construction. See Miebach , 743 P.2d at 846 (finding ""actual loss"" could mean ""out of pocket"" losses or ""real"" losses, i.e. losses that are not merely theoretical). Neither interpretation produces an absurd result. Where ambiguity remains after application of Louisiana's ordinary principles of interpretation, the ambiguity ""must be construed in favor of the insured."" Quinlan , 575 So.2d at 344 ; see also Peterson v. Schimek , 729 So. 2d 1024, 1029 (La. 1999) (citing La. Civ. Code art. 2056 ). Accordingly, the Court makes an ""Erie guess"" that the Louisiana Supreme Court would adopt the majority approach: BJD has suffered an ""actual loss"" if it can prove that the lack of access has caused a diminution in the value of the Property. Diminution in value should correlate closely with the cost to cure the lack of access. See United Bank , 168 F.3d at 41.
III. BJD HAS A RIGHT OF FORCED ACCESS
STG previously moved to have this case be dismissed because, in its words, ""BJD has a right to demand a gratuitous servitude of passage over the vendor's adjacent property,"" by operation of La. Civ. Code art. 694. That article provides:
When in the case of partition, or a voluntary alienation of an estate or of a part thereof, property alienated or partitioned becomes enclosed, passage shall be furnished gratuitously by the owner of the land on which the passage was previously exercised, even if it is not the shortest route to the public road or utility, and even if the act of alienation or partition does not mention a servitude of passage.
The Cash Sale form documenting the Oliviers' sale of the Property to BJD evinces that the Property is bounded on two sides by lots created by the partition of John Olivier's estate (the ""Partition""). The plat shows that the only northward lands separating the Property from Highway 93 are lots 9 and 10 of the Partition. Thus, it appears that the Property became enclosed through the Partition, and by operation of article 694, the Oliviers must furnish a gratuitous right of passage over their lands to the owner of the Property, BJD.
In her Report and Recommendations, adopted by the Court, the Magistrate Judge recommended that STG's motion to dismiss be denied. Although she recognized that BJD has a claim to a forced right of way under the Civil Code-either by article 694 or article 689 -she found this was not equivalent to an actual right of access. Article 689 states:
The owner of an estate that has no access to a public road or utility may claim a right of passage over a neighboring property to the nearest public road or utility. He is bound to compensate his neighbor for the right of passage acquired and to indemnify his neighbor for the damage he may occasion....
The Magistrate Judge reasoned that ""BJD may claim a right of passage over neighboring property, pursuant to La. C.C. art. 689, provided it pays indemnity for the damages it causes"" or ""pursuant to La. C.C. art. 693, if BJD is able to establish that the passage requested was previously used or exercised prior to the partition."" Litigation would be necessary to resolve the issue; thus, the Magistrate Judge concluded that BJD lacked a legal right of access as contemplated by the Policy. Upon further review, the Court agrees that denying dismissal was appropriate. This case is a dispute between a policy holder and its insurer and it would be improper to make a determination of BJD's right to a servitude in this litigation because such a finding would materially impair a property interest held by the Oliviers, who are not party to this proceeding.
Nevertheless, the Court revisits the Magistrate Judge's decision because the Court is not sure it sets out the requirements of art. 694 as the Louisiana Supreme Court would. Both the parties and the Magistrate Judge evidently agreed that art. 694 requires the owner of the dominant estate to prove by what particular route on the subservient estate his property was previously accessed. This is a reasonable position given that the Louisiana Fifth Circuit has held exactly that: ""[ Article 694 ] is mandatory and the only requirement is that the passage was previously used or exercised prior to the partition."" Bayou Fleet Partn. v. Clulee , 150 So. 3d 329, 336-37 (La. App. 5th Cir. 2014). The Magistrate Judge depended on Bayou Fleet , which depends upon Fuller v. Wright , 464 So. 2d 350, 352 (La. App. 2d Cir. 1985) for this ""previous use"" requirement. See Fuller , 464 So.2d at 352 (""The only requirement for enforcement of the right is that the right of passage must have been previously used or exercised.""). The Bayou Fleet court apparently derived the previous use requirement directly from language in article 694 ostensibly requiring ""the passage was previously exercised. "" If no passage was exercised previously, there is no passage to be granted gratuitously now, the court reasoned.
Professor Yiannopoulos disagreed with this reading of art. 694 : ""The absence of an existing roadway previously used over the transferor's estate does not relieve him of the obligation to furnish a passage gratuitously to the acquirer of the property."" 4 A. N. Yiannopoulos, La. Civ. Law Treatise § 5:103 (3rd ed. 2004). An updated version of Prof. Yiannopoulos's revered treatise now states directly that Bayou Fleet ""mistakenly"" held that that the owner of an enclosed estate must prove the passage requested was previously exercised. 4 A. N. Yiannopoulos, La. Civ. L. Treatise , § 5:22 (4th ed. 2018). Commentators who argue that art. 694 does not require proof of previous use, believe "" 'passage' merely refers to a link between the original tract and a public road; it need not refer to a particular, previously used form of access."" See Randall L. Wilmore, The Right of Passage for the Benefit of an Enclosed Estate , 47 La. L. Rev. 199, 203 (1986).
Under this interpretation of art. 694, the owner of an enclosed property need not prove that his property was previously accessed by a specific route-however, if such a route was previously used, then the servitude may be fixed along the route without further deliberation. See Patin v. Richard , 291 So. 2d 879, 884 (La. App. 3d Cir. 1974) (interpreting the pre-revision form of art. 694, located at art. 701), Wilmore, Right of Passage, supra , at 203-204; see also Fuller , 464 So.2d at 352. Commentators suggest their reading of art. 694 is in better harmony with two of its underlying purposes.
First, it can reasonably be assumed that in a transaction that would leave a purchaser with an enclosed estate, it is the intent of the parties that the purchaser be able to access his enclosed property from the intervening tract that is retained by the seller. Article 694 codifies this reasonable assumption and makes the consequences of partitions and voluntary alienations predictable and therefore more efficient. Second, as a matter of equity, ""a landowner should not be allowed to impose by his own volitional acts the burden of a forced passage on neighboring lands."" 4 Yiannopoulos, supra , § 5:103 (3rd ed. 2004). Article 694 internalizes the costs of access to the participants of an alienation or partition. A requirement that there be a previously exercised route of passage externalizes these costs to third-party property owners in cases where two conditions are met: (1) the purchaser of the enclosed estate cannot prove passage previously existed, and so must rely on article 689 ; (2) the neighboring property which affords the shortest distance to the public road belongs to a third-party and not the seller of the enclosed estate. Application of the ""previous use"" restriction creates unnecessary uncertainty as to how and from whom owners of enclosed estates should seek to force their right of access. Given that the Louisiana Fifth Circuit's ""strict adherence to the wording of the article"" in Bayou Fleet stands in opposition to the purposes of the article, the Court is not persuaded that the Louisiana Supreme Court would find that art. 694 imposes a ""previous use"" proof requirement.
Thus, it may be that whether or not BJD has evidence of ""previous use"" of a passage over the Oliviers' land, BJD may be entitled to a gratuitous right of passage under art. 694. Of course, the Louisiana Supreme Court might well agree with Bayou Fleet , and so might any district court in which BJD or STG took their claim of access. But even if article 694 does impose a previous use requirement, and no previous use can be shown, the worst-case scenario would be that BJD is entitled to a forced right of passage for compensation. Article 689 effectively acts as a backstop in this case, capping the cost of curing access. The determination of this cost to cure and the correlative diminution in value of the property is left to the trier of fact-that is, unless the insurer satisfies its obligations under the Policy by curing the access problem.
CONCLUSION
To sum up, the Policy is a contract of indemnity requiring STG to compensate BJD for actual damages incurred from a lack of a right of legal access. Losses from a lack of access are not covered under the unmarketability of title coverage provision. Losses incurred because a preferred right of access is not available are not recoverable. STG has not acted in bad faith and litigation expenses are not recoverable. BJD has suffered an ""actual loss"" if the value of the property has diminished because it lacks any legal right of access.
Accordingly,
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Motion for Summary Judgment (Rec. Doc. 60) is GRANTED as to Plaintiff's claims for damages incurred from:
(1) BJD's lack of preferred right of access;
(2) BJD's return of the Patin's purchase price;
(3) BJD's investment in infrastructure or from loss of use;
(4) BJD's expenses as a part of this litigation.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Motion is DENIED to the extent Plaintiff asks for damages from the diminution of value of the property because it lacks any legal right of access.
APPENDIX
(Rec. Doc. 60-2 at 1).
(Rec. Doc. 60-2 at 4).
(Rec. Doc. 73 at 10-13).
(Rec. Doc. 73 at 11).
(Rec. Doc. 73 at 13).
(Rec. Doc. 73 at 12).
(Rec. Doc. 73 at 13).
(Rec. Doc. 73 at 13).
(Rec. Doc. 60-1 at 4).
(Rec. Doc. 60-1 at 4).
(Rec. Doc. 60-1 at 4).
(Rec. Doc. 60-9).
(Rec. Doc. 60-1 at 5).
(Rec. Doc. 60-3).
(Rec. Doc. 60-3 at 2).
(Rec. Doc. 60-3 at 3).
(Rec. Doc. 60-3 at 3).
(Rec. Doc. 60-1 at 5).
(Rec. Doc. 60-1 at 5).
(Rec. Doc. 1).
(Rec. Doc. 21 at 7).
(Rec. Doc. 21 at 8).
(Rec. Doc. 60-3 at 1).
(Rec. Doc. 60-3 at 2).
One difference between this case and Woody Creek , is that STG has not yet actually obtained even a temporary right of access for BJD. This distinction might be significant were it not for the fact that BJD is apparently uninterested in obtaining an alternative right of access and has allegedly ""stonewalled"" STG's requests that the entities work together to find a new means of access. As BJD's filings make clear, BJD, like the developer in Woody Creek , is interested in using an already developed point of access because any alternative right of access would make its planned subdivision economically unfeasible.
Under Louisiana law, merchantable title is ""free of rational substantial doubt to the extent that a purchaser should feel that he can hold his purchase in peace without the probability of attack and with reasonable assurance that it will be readily salable on the open market."" Deleon v. WSIS, Inc. , 728 So. 2d 1046, 1049 (La. App. 2d Cir. 1999). This is entirely consistent with Colorado's definition of merchantability of title, which the Tenth Circuit used in Woody Creek, 830 F.3d at 1216 (""A marketable title as one that is 'reasonably certain not to be called into question in the future so as to subject the purchaser to the hazard of litigation.' "").
The Court concedes that another treatise has surveyed existing case law and come to the opposite conclusion. See Joyce Palomar, 1 Title Ins. Law § 5:8 (2018 ed.) (""[E]ven if a particular title insurance policy does not expressly cover loss resulting from lack of a right of access, the Insured may have a claim for unmarketability of its title.""). However, as that commentator admits, ""[t]he fact that in ALTA policies, separate Covered Risks exist for unmarketability of the title and lack of a right of access does suggest that title insurers did not intend that lack of a right of access necessarily was included within the policy's coverage for unmarketable title."" Id.
(Rec. Doc. 60-3 at 3).
""In general, the class into which a particular policy falls depends upon the intention of the parties to the contract, as evinced by the phraseology of the agreement in such respect in the policy."" Quinlan , 575 So. 2d at 348. Here, the language stating the ""policy is a contract of indemnity against actual monetary loss or damage"" compels the conclusion that the Policy is one of indemnity.
(Rec. Docs. 71-2, 72-3).
(Rec. Docs. 71-2).
(Rec. Docs. 71-3).
(Rec. Doc. 70-2).
(Rec. Doc. 70-2 at 55-57).
""A certain tract or parcel of land, together with all buildings and improvements thereon, and all rights, ways, privileges, servitudes, appurtenances, and advantages thereunto belonging, containing 27.864 acres, more or less, located in ... St. Landry Parish, Louisiana...."" (Rec. Doc. 60-3 at 4).
(Rec. Doc. 60-3 at 1).
This type of diminution of value analysis can be seen in Spalding v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. , 463 S.W.3d 770, 777 (Mo. 2015) (en banc), a case BJD relies on. In Spalding , the insured's claim was for a defect in title. According to the schedule attached to the title policy, the insured had title to 419 acres of land; in fact, a rival claimant had title to one of these acres. Id. at 772. In that case, STG attempted to recompense the insured for the fair-market value of the 1-acre: $ 10,000. Id. at 774. The insured refused this offer because the insured had planned to use its entire parcel to create a lakefront subdivision with an artificial lake, and the rival-claimant was a hold-out, asking for $ 387,000. In lieu of covering its damages, the insured asked that STG cure its title, but STG refused to do so. Id. The Missouri Supreme Court affirmed a $ 1 million-dollar verdict. Spalding is distinguishable not because it involved a title defect but because the policy in that case insured a specific 419-acre tract, and the insurer had good title to a tract other than how it was described in the policy. This case would be analogous to Spalding if BJD had contracted for deeded access to the Property.
(Rec. Doc. 60-3 at 1) (emphasis added).
""Each provision in a contract must be interpreted in light of the other provisions so that each is given the meaning suggested by the contract as a whole."" La. Civ. Code art. 2050.
(Rec. Doc. 60-3 at 3).
This might explain why BJD has not been eager to have STG secure an alternative right of access.
(Rec. Doc. 73-14).
(Rec. Doc. 73 at 22).
(Rec. Doc. 60-3).
(Rec. Doc. 73 at 22).
To the contrary, the record reflects that STG has attempted to satisfy its obligations under the Policy from the beginning by curing the lack of access through an alternative route. (Rec. Doc. 60-13).
Or, after reasonable efforts, if the insured is unable to sell the property because of a lack of access.
BJD relies on the law of other jurisdictions. STG cites to two cases applying Louisiana law, but neither reaches the issue of whether a diminution in the value of a property constitutes an ""actual loss."" In Ky v. GOB Const., Inc. , No. 2013-1042, 2014 WL 1717454 (La. App. 3 Cir. April 30, 2014), the homeowner did not argue his property had been devalued for violating a local ordinance; in fact, he freely admitted ""he had[n't] suffered any loss."" The second case is distinguishable because it involves a lender's insurance policy rather than an owner's policy. See First Nat. Bank of Jeanerette v. Lawyers Title Ins. Corp. , No. CIV. 08-0913, 2010 WL 3734056, at *1 (W.D. La. Aug. 12, 2010), report and recommendation adopted , No. CIV. 08-0913, 2010 WL 3734020 (W.D. La. Sept. 16, 2010). The Fifth Circuit has recognized in dicta that ""the owner of property suffers a loss immediately upon discovery of a defect."" First Am. Bank v. First Am. Transp. Title Ins. Co. , 759 F.3d 427, 433 (5th Cir. 2014). A mortgagee, by contrast, does not. Id. See Palomar, supra , §§ 6:19-20 for a detailed examination of how the differences between owners' and lenders' interests has created different rules for determining what constitutes an ""actual loss"" for insured owners and lenders.
(Rec. Doc. 60-2 at 1).
(Rec. Doc. 60-2 at 4).
(Rec. Doc. 21 at 7).
(Rec. Doc. 21 at 7).
In Fuller the court held, ""Having shown that a definite roadway existed and had been used before and after the 1962 partition, these plaintiffs are and have been entitled to the exercise of their CC Art. 694 servitude rights."" Fuller , 464 So.2d at 352. This made it unnecessary to ""fix the location of the servitude before granting an injunction."" Id. The court therefore did not ""answer the question as to what relief an owner of a dominant estate may seek if a passageway does not exist at the time of the partition or alienation."" Randall L. Wilmore, The Right of Passage for the Benefit of an Enclosed Estate , 47 La. L. Rev. 199, 210 (1986).
This interpretation finds some support in the structure of the article. The first part of art. 694-as indicated by the use of the word ""when,""-states the conditions necessary for it to be applied (property is enclosed by partition or by voluntary alienation). The second part states the consequences of art. 694's application: ""passage shall be furnished gratuitously by the owner of the land on which the passage was previously exercised."" (emphasis added). The third part simply affirms that art. 694 is not constrained by the general article setting the locations of passages, art. 692 (art. 694 provides a right of passage ""even if it is not the shortest route to the public road or utility""). The fourth part similarly affirms that article 694 applies even if the act of partition or alienation does not mention any servitude of passage. It is a strange construction which places an additional requirement for application of the article in the second part, rather than the first.
See 4 Yiannopoulos, supra , § 5:103 (3rd ed. 2004).
See Stuckey v. Collins , 464 So. 2d 346, 348 n.3 (La. App. 2d Cir. 1985).	majority
375 F.Supp.3d 1	2019-03-20	D.D.C.	W. Sur. Co. v. U.S. Eng'g Co.	TANYA S. CHUTKAN, United States District Judge	TANYA S. CHUTKAN, United States District Judge
Plaintiff Western Surety Company (""Western Surety"") sued for declaratory and injunctive relief to enjoin Defendant U.S. Engineering Company (""U.S. Engineering"") from compelling arbitration proceedings against Plaintiff and making a claim on a surety bond issued by Plaintiff. Western Surety has moved for an order (1) awarding summary judgment on the sole claim, (2) declaring that it has no obligation to U.S. Engineering, and (3) dismissing U.S. Engineering's counterclaim with prejudice. (ECF No. 29.) U.S. Engineering has filed a Motion and an Amended Motion for Reconsideration of the Court's August 31, 2017 Order granting Western Surety's motion to strike U.S. Engineering's supplemental authority. (ECF Nos. 45 & 46.) For the reasons stated herein, U.S. Engineering's motions will be GRANTED , and Western Surety's motion will be GRANTED .
I. UNDISPUTED FACTS
On January 25, 2012, Turner Construction and U.S. Engineering entered into a contract, under the terms of which U.S. Engineering was to perform renovation and construction work at the South African Embassy in Washington, D.C. (ECF No. 35 (""7(H)(1) Statement"") at ¶ 1.) U.S. Engineering awarded a subcontract to United Sheet Metal, Inc. (""Sheet Metal"") to furnish labor and materials relating to the installation of sheet metal at the embassy. (Id. ¶ 2.) At Sheet Metal's request, Western Surety issued a $ 585,000.00 performance bond (the ""Bond"") identifying U.S. Engineering as ""Owner,"" Sheet Metal as ""Contractor,"" and Western Surety as ""Surety."" (Id. ¶¶ 3, 4.)
Section 3 of the Bond provided that Western Surety's obligation would arise after: (1) U.S. Engineering provided notice to Sheet Metal and Western Surety that it was considering a declaration of default; (2) U.S. Engineering declared a default, terminated the contract, and notified Western Surety; and (3) U.S. Engineering agreed to pay the balance of the contract price to Western Surety or to a contractor selected to perform the contract. (Id. ¶ 5.) With respect to the first requirement, Section 4 of the Bond explicitly stated that U.S. Engineering's failure to comply with the notice requirement would neither constitute a failure to comply with a condition precedent to Western Surety's obligation nor release Western Surety from its obligation unless Western Surety demonstrated prejudice. (Id. ) The Bond was silent as to whether the second two requirements constituted a condition precedent.
Section 5 of the Bond detailed the four options that Western Surety was permitted to take to fulfill its obligation after U.S. Engineering had satisfied the conditions of Section 3. (Id. ) First, Western Surety could, with U.S. Engineering's consent, arrange for Sheet Metal to complete the contract. (Id. ) Second, Western Surety could complete the contract itself, through its agents, or through its independent contractors. (Id. ) Third, Western Surety could solicit bids from qualified contractors, arrange for a contractor acceptable to U.S. Engineering to complete the contract, and pay damages to U.S. Engineering. (Id. ) Fourth, Western Surety could waive its rights to facilitate completion of the project and either compensate U.S. Engineering in the amount for which Western Surety was liable or deny liability entirely. (Id. )
In February 2013, issues regarding Sheet Metal's performance began to arise, and continued through the spring and summer of 2013, culminating in U.S. Engineering formally terminating the subcontract on September 9, 2013. (Id. ¶¶ 8, 9.) U.S. Engineering then arranged for completion of Sheet Metal's work by U.S. Engineering and four other companies, without the knowledge of Western Surety. (Id. ¶ 11.) On June 12, 2014, Western Surety received a notice of claim from U.S. Engineering advising Western Surety that: (1) Sheet Metal had been terminated as a subcontractor, and (2) U.S. Engineering had incurred expenses to complete and correct Sheet Metal's work. (Id. ¶ 8.)
II. STANDARD OF REVIEW
Summary judgment is appropriate where there is no genuine issue of material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(a) ; Celotex Corp. v. Catrett , 477 U.S. 317, 322, 106 S.Ct. 2548, 91 L.Ed.2d 265 (1986) ; Waterhouse v. Dist. of Columbia , 298 F.3d 989, 991 (D.C. Cir. 2002). The moving party bears the ""initial responsibility of informing the district court of the basis for its motion, and identifying those portions of the pleadings, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file, together with the affidavits ... which it believes demonstrate the absence of a genuine issue of material fact."" Celotex Corp. , 477 U.S. at 323, 106 S.Ct. 2548 (internal quotation marks omitted). The nonmoving party, in response, must present its own evidence beyond the pleadings to demonstrate specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue for trial. Id. at 324, 106 S.Ct. 2548.
In determining whether a genuine issue of material fact exists, the court must view all facts in the light most favorable to the non-moving party. See Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co., Ltd. v. Zenith Radio Corp. , 475 U.S. 574, 587, 106 S.Ct. 1348, 89 L.Ed.2d 538 (1986). A fact is material if ""a dispute over it might affect the outcome of a suit under governing law; factual disputes that are 'irrelevant or unnecessary' do not affect the summary judgment determination."" Holcomb v. Powell , 433 F.3d 889, 895 (D.C. Cir. 2006) (quoting Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc. , 477 U.S. 242, 248, 106 S.Ct. 2505, 91 L.Ed.2d 202 (1986) ). An issue is genuine if "" 'the evidence is such that a reasonable jury could return a verdict for the nonmoving party.' "" Id. (quoting Anderson , 477 U.S. at 248, 106 S.Ct. 2505 ).
III. ANALYSIS
A. U.S. Engineering's Motion for Reconsideration
U.S. Engineering asks this court to reconsider its August 31, 2017 order striking from the record its notice of supplemental authority-an Arbitration Award in favor of U.S. Engineering and against Sheet Metal. (ECF No. 46-2.) The court sua sponte struck the authority from the record because U.S. Engineering's opposition to the motion to strike was untimely. In its motion for reconsideration, U.S. Engineering explains that it obtained Western Surety's consent for an extension of time to respond but neglected to inform the court of the agreement. (ECF No. 46-1 at 1.) Because U.S. Engineering received Western Surety's consent before expiration of the deadline, the court will reconsider its decision to grant Western Surety's motion to strike.
B. Western Surety's Motion to Strike
Approximately four months after briefing of Western Surety's motion for summary judgment concluded, U.S. Engineering filed a notice of supplemental authority. (ECF No. 43.) The stated purpose of the notice is to bring to the court's attention a July 26, 2017 Final Award from the International Centre for Dispute Resolution, in an arbitration. (Id. )
According to the award, the arbitration was initiated by Sheet Metal, but Sheet Metal stopped participating. (ECF No. 43-1 at ¶ 3.) Subsequently, upon review of evidence submitted by U.S. Engineering, the arbitrator found in favor of U.S. Engineering. (Id. ¶ 14.) U.S. Engineering maintains that the award ""establishes on the merits that United Sheet Metal (and by extension Western Surety) did not have valid defenses to U.S. Engineering's allegations about United Sheet Metal's work,"" ""establishes the amount of U.S. Engineering's damages,"" and serves as proof that Western Surety has not proved ""that it was prejudiced to the extent of 100% of U.S. Engineering's claim against the bond."" (ECF No. 43 at ¶¶ 6-7.)
Western Surety argues that the Arbitration Award should be stricken from the record for at least five reasons. First, in an earlier decision, this court held that Western Surety ""is not bound by the arbitration agreement in Defendant's subcontract."" (ECF No. 44 at ¶ 1.) Second, Western Surety did not participate in the arbitration. (Id. ¶ 3.) Third, U.S. Engineering neither sought leave to supplement the record nor cited any authority permitting it to supplement a fully-briefed motion. (Id. ¶ 4.) Fourth, the supplemental authority offers no authority and lacks precedential value. (Id. ¶¶ 5-6.) And fifth, none of the findings have any bearing on the chief argument made by Western Surety in favor of summary judgment. (Id. ¶ 7.)
Western Surety presents several salient points. Nevertheless, because ""motions to strike, as a general rule, are disfavored,"" Stabilisierungsfonds Fur Wein v. Kaiser Stuhl Wine Distributors Pty. Ltd. , 647 F.2d 200, 201 (D.C. Cir. 1981) (footnote omitted), and because the Arbitration Award has no effect on this court's interpretation of the Bond, Western Surety's motion to strike is denied.
C. Western Surety's Motion for Summary Judgment
Western Surety argues that it is entitled to summary judgment because its obligation under the Bond was discharged when U.S. Engineering failed to comply with two conditions precedent-created separately in Bond Sections 3.1 and 3.2-to Western Surety's performance. Under District of Columbia law, which applies here, a condition precedent is "" 'an event, not certain to occur, which must occur, unless its non-occurrence is excused, before performance under a contract becomes due.' "" Washington Props., Inc. v. Chin, Inc. , 760 A.2d 546, 549 (D.C. 2000) (quoting Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 224 (Am. Law Inst. 1981) ). In other words, a condition precedent is a fact which must either occur or exist before a duty to perform can arise. See Brier v. Orenberg , 90 A.2d 832, 833 (D.C.Mun.App. 1952).
1. U.S. Engineering Failed to Adhere to a Condition Precedent.
Western Surety first contends that Section 3.2 creates a condition precedent to its performance on the Bond because it requires that the owner provide timely notice after declaring a contractor in default and terminating the construction contract. (ECF No. 29 (""Mot. Summ. J."") at 13-19.) According to Western Surety, U.S. Engineering did not satisfy the condition precedent because it failed to provide any notice to Western Surety until nine months after U.S. Engineering had terminated Sheet Metal and until U.S. Engineering had overseen completion of the work that fell within the scope of the subcontract. (Id. at 13-14.) In opposition, U.S. Engineering relies on the fact that Section 3.2 ""does not contain the phrase 'timely notice' "" or mention ""a 'nine-month' statute of limitations."" (ECF No. 34 (""Opp. Mot. Summ. J."") at 5.) U.S. Engineering contends that it fulfilled its contractual obligations: unbound by any time constraints, it declared the default, terminated the contract, and notified Western Surety. (Id. 4-5.)
As the parties' positions indicate, the key question is whether the contract includes a provision requiring U.S. Engineering to take specific action within a certain amount of time in order to trigger Western Surety's obligation under the Bond. Western Surety relies on Hunt Construction Group, Inc. v. National Wrecking Corp. , 587 F.3d 1119 (D.C. Cir. 2009), in which Hunt Construction Group subcontracted work to National Wrecking Corporation, with an agreement that work would be completed by a certain date. Id. at 1120. As is the case here, the bond between National Wrecking and the sureties provided the sureties with options to remedy National Wrecking's default. Id. In February 2004, Hunt Construction knew that National Wrecking's work was delayed, believed the delays were a default of the subcontract, and knew that it would incur additional expenses because of the delay.
Id. Nevertheless, not until July 2004-five months after the alleged default and three months after National Wrecking's work had been completed-did Hunt Construction notify the sureties and seek performance under the bond. Id. In upholding the district court's ruling against Hunt Construction, the D.C. Circuit reasoned that the sureties' options to remedy the default would be ""nonsensical"" without the inference that the sureties should be given timely notice of the declaration of default. Id. at 1121. Therefore, Hunt Construction's failure to provide the sureties with timely notice of a claim under the bond was a failure of a condition precedent, which relieved the sureties of their obligations under the bond. Id. at 1122.
In this case, adhering to basic contract principles and applying Hunt Construction , the court finds in favor of Western Surety. In construing a contract, a court must give meaning to each provision, if possible. Steele Founds., Inc. v. Clark Const. Grp., Inc. , 937 A.2d 148, 154 (D.C. 2007) (""Contractual provisions are interpreted taking into account the contract as a whole, so as to give effect, if possible, to all of the provisions in the contract.""). Pursuant to Section 5 of the Bond, Western Surety was explicitly granted the right to cure Sheet Metal's default by arranging for completion of the work (by Sheet Metal, Western Surety, an agent/independent contractor of Western Surety, or another approved subcontractor). Failing to construe the Bond as requiring notice of default and termination before the completion of Sheet Metal's work would effectively nullify the agreed-upon provisions that afforded Western Surety the right to take remedial action in the event of Sheet Metal's default, and would render the provisions superfluous.
Accordingly, the court finds that although Section 3.2 does not explicitly state that U.S. Engineering must notify Western Surety within a certain amount of time, the explicit grant to Western Surety of a right to remedy the default necessarily implies that timely notice is required to trigger Western Surety's obligation under the Bond because Section 5 operates only if timely notice is given. U.S. Engineering's notice was clearly untimely. This finding is in accord with Sheet Metal Workers' Local Union No. 100 Washington, D.C. Area Pension Fund v. Western Surety Co. , 187 F.Supp.3d 569 (D. Md. 2016), which found that Western Surety was not relieved of liability because, unlike here, ""there was no provision in the Bond that would have triggered an opportunity for Western Surety to cure any default."" Id. at 581.
2. Prejudice Is Not a Required Showing Under Section 3.2 of the Bond.
U.S. Engineering argues that Western Surety must establish that it has been prejudiced before it can be released from its obligation under the Bond. (Opp. Mot. Summ. J. at 11-18.) Specifically, U.S. Engineering contends that Western Surety has not shown and cannot show actual prejudice because it now has the files necessary to investigate the issues and can freely communicate with the companies that completed Sheet Metal's work. (Id. ) These arguments fail for at least three reasons.
First, the Bond does not require a showing of actual prejudice. Section 4 of the Bond states that a ""failure ... to comply with the notice requirement in Section 3.1"" would require a demonstration of actual prejudice to constitute a condition precedent, but there is no such provision which references the notice requirement of Section 3.2. (7(h)(1) Statement at ¶ 5.) As noted above, if possible, a court must give meaning to each provision of a contract. Steele Founds., Inc. , 937 A.2d at 154. Taking the whole Bond into account and giving full effect to Section 4, the court finds that the provision requiring Western Surety to demonstrate actual prejudice to be released from its obligation is limited to U.S. Engineering's failure to provide notice pursuant to Section 3.1. Put differently, while U.S. Engineering's noncompliance with the notice requirement in Section 3.1 requires an actual prejudice showing from Western Surety, U.S. Engineering's noncompliance with the notice requirement in Section 3.2 requires no such showing.
Second, a showing of actual prejudice is not required as a matter of law. U.S. Engineering relies on Conesco Industries, Ltd. v. Conforti & Eisele, Inc. , 627 F.2d 312 (D.C. Cir. 1980), in which the issue was whether Conesco Industries was barred from recovering under a bond due to its failure to timely notify the surety that the subcontractor had been terminated. Id. at 313. The subcontractor walked off the job the first week of December 1975; Conesco did not notify the surety of the default until July 30, 1976. Id. at 313-14. The bond stated that ""no suit or action shall be commenced ... unless claimant ... shall have given written notice to any two of the following: the principal, the owner, or the surety ... within ninety (90) days"" after the claimant last completed work or furnished materials related to the claim. Id. at 314. Applying Maryland law, the D.C. Circuit held that the bond language did not create a condition precedent of notice to the surety before recovery could be made, as the bond did not expressly require that the surety receive notice. Id. at 315. The Circuit noted that it was possible that under the terms of the bond, notice could be given to the principal on the project and the owner of the project and not to the surety, and the surety would still be liable. Id. Under such circumstances, the surety was not discharged from its obligations absent a showing of prejudice or damage suffered as a result of Conseco's failure to give adequate notice. Id. at 317.
Putting aside the fact that Conesco and this case are governed by different states' laws, the language of the bond in Conseco differs from the language of the Bond here. Section 3.2 provides that the Surety's obligation under the Bond arises after U.S. Engineering declares default, terminates the contract, and notifies Western Surety. (7(H)(1) Statement at ¶ 5.) Under this clear and explicit language, Western Surety cannot be liable if notice is provided only to another entity or to some combination of other entities involved with the project (as was the case in Conesco ). To the contrary, as previously stated, Section 3.2 of the Bond makes notice of Sheet Metal's default and termination a condition precedent for liability. Western Surety falls into the category of ""[s]ureties who require notice of default so that they can themselves take remedial action presumably [because they] are unwilling to submit to the vagaries of litigation a[nd] calculation of the exact impact of being denied notice."" Hunt Constr. , 587 F.3d at 1122.
Third, U.S. Engineering has presented scant legal support for its assertion that Western Surety's discharge is limited to the extent of actual loss. U.S. Engineering relies solely on Mergentime Corp. v. Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Auth. , 775 F.Supp. 14 (D.D.C. 1991). That case involved whether the modifications that the plaintiffs and defendant made to the original construction contract materially increased the surety's risk so as to entitle the surety to a complete discharge of its obligations under District of Columbia suretyship law. Id. The surety, in arguing that it did, relied on the fact that the material modifications were made through a subsequent agreement without its prior notice and consent. Id. at 15. The D.C. Circuit held that the surety was not entitled to discharge on the basis of the modification alone; any discharge must be cabined to the prejudice the surety suffered. Id. at 22-23.
Mergentime Corp. is inapplicable to the instant action. In Mergentime Corp. , the court was confronted with a bond contract that had been modified by the other two parties without notification to the surety. Id. Here, U.S. Engineering's breach of the agreement deprived Western Surety of its Section 5 rights. Given these significant differences, the court cannot read Mergentime Corp. as support for the argument that Western Surety's discharge must be limited in any way.
* * *
In sum, each of U.S. Engineering's arguments misses the mark. Indeed, if Section 5 were stricken from the Bond and Section 4 were altered, U.S. Engineering's arguments might have traction. But, where, as here, there is a valid contractual provision affording the surety an opportunity to remedy the default, U.S. Engineering's arguments fly in the face of the Bond's clear language and construction, and are therefore unavailing. U.S. Engineering is precluded from depriving Western Surety of the opportunity to cure default and demanding payment from Western Surety despite that deprivation.
IV. CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant's Motions for Reconsideration will be GRANTED, Plaintiff's Motion to Strike will be DENIED, and Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment will be GRANTED.
An appropriate Order will issue separately.
On September 30, 2016, the court granted summary judgment in favor of Western Surety on Counts I and II of the complaint. (ECF Nos. 21 & 22.)
The following facts are taken from the parties' Local Rule 7(h)(1) Statement. (ECF No. 35.) The facts are undisputed unless otherwise noted.	majority
383 F.Supp.3d 668	2019-03-08	N.D. Tex.	Landmark Ins. Co. v. Lonergan Law Firm, PLLC	TERRY R. MEANS, UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE	TERRY R. MEANS, UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE
I. INTRODUCTION
Before the Court is a motion for summary judgment by Landmark American Insurance Company (""Landmark"") (doc. 38). The motion asks the Court to determine whether Landmark's insured invoked coverage by properly reporting a claim under a lawyer's professional-responsibility policy. More specifically, the motion asserts that the inclusion of a claim supplement in a renewal application failed to trigger Landmark's duty to defend and indemnify. After review, the Court GRANTS Landmark's motion based upon the following rationale.
II. FACTUAL & PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
A. About the Parties
Landmark is an insurance company providing professional-liability-insurance policies from its principal place of business in Atlanta, Georgia. (Compl. (doc. 1) 1.)
Defendant Gaylene Rogers Lonergan (""Lonergan""), Landmark's insured, is a licensed attorney providing legal services in Dallas, Texas. (Id. at 3.) The Lonergan Law Firm, PLLC (collectively ""Defendants""), is a professional limited-liability company providing legal services from its principal place of business in Dallas, Texas. (Id. )
Christopher Dillon Snell; Brian Lockhard; Impromptu Communications, LLC; Todd Crain; and James L. Springer Jr. (collectively ""Intervenor Defendants"") are individual and corporate investors involved as lenders in the underlying state-court dispute. (Interv. Defs.' Mot. to Intervene (doc. 15) 5.)
B. The Underlying Dispute
In 2015, N & J Enterprises (""N & J"") approached Intervenor Defendants regarding an investment opportunity. (Interv. Defs.' App'x to Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 43-44.) The opportunity involved the purchase of real property in Dalworthington Gardens, Texas (""the Dalworthington Property""). (Id. ) To invest, Intervenor Defendants would, and did, provide a $ 4.6 million loan to N & J, which then purchased the Dalworthington Property. The loan was secured by granting the Intervenor Defendants certain rights to various assets, including a deed of trust for the Dalworthington Property. (Id. at 47-48).
Defendants presided over the closing of the loan and provided assurances to the Intervenor Defendants that all security documentation concerning the loan's security was properly assembled and executed. (Id. ) Relying upon that assurance, the Intervenor Defendants authorized the funds' disbursement and Defendants, acting as the transaction's escrow agent, released Intervenor Defendants' $ 4,600,000 to N & J in May 2015. (Id. )
In June 2015, the loan matured but N & J failed to make payments to the Intervenor Defendants, who consequently attempted to enforce their rights under various security interests that N & J had provided. (Id. at 48.) One of those security interests was a Bank of America escrow account containing approximately $ 5,000,0000 that resulted from an agreement between N & J and Edward Eddyenton III (""Eddyenton""). (Id. ) As security for the loan, Eddyenton and N & J assigned N & J's rights to the account to the Intervenor Defendants. (Id. ) Lonergan had previously notarized the escrow assignment agreement's signature page and attested that she witnessed the escrow agent, Eddyenton, sign the agreement in her presence. (Id. )
The Intervenor Defendants also attempted to enforce their rights to proceeds from an unrelated real-estate transaction involving N & J that was included in the Dalworthington-Property deal. Previously, Lonergan had notarized an assignment of N & J's property rights to $ 14,000,000 in proceeds from a transaction involving property located on Coombs Creek Drive in Dallas, Texas (""the Coombs Creek Property""). (Id. at 49.)
The enforcement attempts proved to be a fool's errand for the Intervenor Defendants. In doing so, it became clear that the Bank of America escrow account never held more than $ 500, that Eddyenton was an alias of Jonathan Blount (""Blount""), N & J's owner and a career criminal with prior felony convictions for fraudulent investments in Texas and Oklahoma, and that Lonergan had never actually witnessed Blount sign the escrow assignment agreement in her presence. (Id. at 48-49.) Concerning the Coombs Creek Property, Intervenor Defendants learned that Lonergan suspected that N & J held no rights to the property at the time it assigned its rights to the Intervenor Defendants, but never conveyed that information to them. (Id. at 49.)
With all remaining security interests proven fraudulent, the Intervenor Defendants attempted to enforce their rights under the deed of trust on the Dalworthington Property by initiating foreclosure proceedings. (Id. ) However, they soon discovered that Lonergan had inaccurately described the Dalworthington Property in the deed and the Intervenor Defendants were only able to recover from its sale approximately $ 2,900,000 of the $ 4,600,000 loan. (Id. ) What is more, N & J's $ 14,600,000 appraisal of the Dalworthington Property proved to be more than ten times its actual value, which was overlooked by Lonergan. (Id. )
C. Landmark's Professional-Liability Coverage and Underlying State-Court Lawsuit Against Lonergan
Landmark provided professional-liability-insurance coverage to Lonergan between May 2014 and Spring 2017. (Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 72); (Interv. Defs'. App'x to Opp'n to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 151.)) During that time, Lonergan renewed her policy yearly by completing an application that Landmark subsequently reviewed prior to renewal. (Id. at 68.) The application includes a question asking the applicant if a professional-liability claim or suit has ever been made against the applicant's firm or predecessor firm within the last five years. (Id. at 72.) If the applicant indicated that this was the case, he was required to complete a claims supplement listing and describing those claims. (Id. at 72, 73; 110, 111.) For both the 2015 and 2016 claim periods involved in this case, Lonergan filed a supplement in April 2015 and 2016 when applying to renew her policy. (Id. at 73, 111.)
On May 12, 2015, Landmark issued Lonergan a lawyer's professional-liability-insurance policy for the period between May 8, 2015, through May 8, 2016 (""2015 Policy""), and again for the period between May 8, 2016, and May 8, 2017 (""2016 Policy""). (Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 43, 80.) The policies operated on a made-and-reported basis with a retroactive date of May 8, 2014. (Id. )
Certain provisions of both policies, which are identical, are pertinent to resolving the issues before the Court. They are:
Covered Services : [Landmark] will pay on behalf of the Insured as shown in the [d]eclarations, all sums that the Insured becomes legally obligated to pay as [d]amages and associated [c]laim [e]xpenses arising out of a negligent act, error, omission, or [p]ersonal [i]njury, even if the [c]laim asserted is groundless, false or fraudulent, in the rendering of or failure to render [p]rofessional [s]ervices as a [l]awyer, provided that the:
1. [c]laim is first made against the Insured during the [p]olicy [p]eriod, and reported to [Landmark] no later than thirty (30) days after the end of the [p]olicy [p]eriod....
Policy Period : means the period of time stated in the [d]eclarations or any shorter period resulting from policy cancellation or amendment to the policy.
Claim : means a written demand for monetary or non-monetary relief received by the Insured during the [p]olicy [p]eriod, including the service of suit, or the institution of an arbitration proceeding. Additionally, [c]laims that arise from an incident, occurrence or offense first reported by the Insured during the [p]olicy [p]eriod and accepted by [Landmark] in accordance with Part IV. A. Notice of Claim will be considered a [c]laim first made during the [p]olicy [p]eriod.
Notice of Claim : The Insured must notify [Landmark] as soon as practicable of an incident, occurrence or offense that may reasonably be expected to result in a [c]laim. Where notice to [Landmark] of such incidents, occurrences or offenses has been acknowledged as adequate by [Landmark] in writing, subsequent [c]laims derived from such incidents, occurrences or offenses will be deemed as first made at the time the incident, occurrence or offense giving rise to such [c]laim was first provided. The Insured also must immediately send copies to [Landmark] of any demands, notices, summonses or legal papers received in connection with any [c]laim, and must authorize [Landmark] to obtain records and other information.
(Interv. Defs.' App'x to Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 9, 13, 14.)
On July 30, 2015, Intervenor Defendants filed suit against Lonergan in the 17th Judicial District Court, Tarrant County, Texas, alleging breach-of-contract, negligence, and negligent misrepresentation based upon Lonergan's actions in connection with the loan's closing. (Id. at 70-71.) Lonergan was served with process on August 4, 2015. (Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 17.) Because the lawsuit had not been initiated as of the 2015 Policy's issuance, Lonergan did not report it in her claim supplement in April 2015. (Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 73.)
However, Lonergan did present the matter to Landmark in her April 2016 claim supplement. (Id. at 111.) In that supplement Lonergan described the underlying state-court lawsuit as:
September 2015 - Suit filed against Firm (as title agent), Title Company, Borrower(s), and Guarantor by Lender to the transaction-Regarding non-payment of loan by Borrower; alleged fraud and negligence-Discovery proceeding with Gaylene Rogers Lonergan's deposition being taken; Settlement talks are in process and Borrower is in process of paying outstanding amounts due Lender which will result in full release of all parties with no further liability.
(Id. )
On June 9, 2016, the thirty-day-claim-reporting deadline for the 2015 Policy expired while the underlying state-action progressed. On March 12, 2017, Lonergan transmitted a letter to Landmark seeking coverage in connection with the underlying state-court lawsuit and attaching a state-court order compelling mediation. (Interven. Defs.' App'x to Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 126-27.)
Landmark responded to Lonergan's request on March 29, 2017. In its letter, Landmark asserted that ""coverage does not exist for the claims asserted against Lonergan in the referenced lawsuit."" (Id.
at 131.) The rationale supporting Landmark's decision was that it first received Lonergan's request for coverage on March 12, 2017, and that that request was not made during the 2015 Policy. (Id. at 136.) It also stated that Lonergan failed to provide a copy of the underlying state-court action's petition and summons to Landmark, which violated its notice conditions. (Id. ) Landmark concluded the letter by indicating that it would not be attending the previously scheduled March 30, 2017 mediation. (Id. )
On March 31, 2017, Landmark filed the current lawsuit with this Court seeking a declaratory judgment that it possesses no duty to defend or indemnify Lonergan concerning the claims brought by the Intervenor Defendants in the underlying state-court lawsuit. (Compl. (doc. 1).)
That lawsuit was adjudicated via a bench trial in August 2017. On December 11, 2017, the state court entered a final judgment against Lonergan on the Intervenor-Defendants' claims for negligence and negligent misrepresentation and awarded them actual damages of $ 804,581.76 plus pre-and-post-judgment interest. (Interv. Defs.' App'x to Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 140.)
III. LEGAL STANDARDS
A. Summary Judgment Standard
When the record establishes ""that there is no genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,"" summary judgment is appropriate. Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(a). ""[A dispute] is 'genuine' if it is real and substantial, as opposed to merely formal, pretended, or a sham."" Bazan v. Hidalgo Cnty. , 246 F.3d 481, 489 (5th Cir. 2001) (citation omitted). A fact is ""material"" if it ""might affect the outcome of the suit under governing law."" Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc. , 477 U.S. 242, 248, 106 S.Ct. 2505, 91 L.Ed.2d 202 (1986).
To demonstrate that a particular fact cannot be genuinely in dispute, a plaintiff movant must (a) cite to particular parts of materials in the record (e.g., affidavits, depositions, etc.), and (b) if the defendant has cited any materials in response, show that those materials do not establish the presence of a genuine dispute as to that fact. Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(c)(1). Although the Court is required to consider only the cited materials, it may consider other materials in the record. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(c)(3). Nevertheless, Rule 56 ""does not impose on the district court a duty to sift through the record in search of evidence to support a party's opposition to summary judgment."" Skotak v. Tenneco Resins, Inc. , 953 F.2d 909, 915-16 & n.7 (5th Cir.), cert. denied , 506 U.S. 825, 113 S.Ct. 98, 121 L.Ed.2d 59 (1992). Instead, parties should ""identify specific evidence in the record, and ... articulate the 'precise manner' in which that evidence support[s] their claim."" Forsyth v. Barr , 19 F.3d 1527, 1537 (5th Cir. 1994).
In evaluating whether summary judgment is appropriate, the Court ""views the evidence in the light most favorable to the nonmovant, drawing all reasonable inferences in the nonmovant's favor."" Sanders-Burns v. City of Plano , 594 F.3d 366, 380 (5th Cir. 2010) (citation omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). ""After the non-movant has been given the opportunity to raise a genuine factual [dispute], if no reasonable juror could find for the non-movant, summary judgment will be granted."" Byers v. Dallas Morning News, Inc. , 209 F.3d 419, 424 (5th Cir. 2000) (citing Celotex Corp. v. Catrett , 477 U.S. 317, 322, 106 S.Ct. 2548, 91 L.Ed.2d 265 (1986) ).
B. Controlling State Law
Since federal jurisdiction in this case arises from a diversity of citizenship, the Court applies the forum state's substantive law. ACE Am. Ins. Co. v. Freeport Welding & Fabricating, Inc. , 699 F.3d 832, 839 (5th Cir. 2012) (citing Erie R.R. Co. v. Tompkins , 304 U.S. 64, 78, 58 S.Ct. 817, 82 L.Ed. 1188 (1938) ). The parties' briefing does not dispute that Texas law applies to the Court's interpretation of the 2015 and 2016 Policies in this instance.
Under Texas law, insurers may have two responsibilities regarding policy coverage--the duty to defend and the duty to indemnify. Id. (quoting Gilbane Bldg. Co. v. Admiral Ins. Co. , 664 F.3d 589, 594 (5th Cir. 2011) (citation omitted)). The Texas Supreme Court has explained that these duties are distinct and are to be decided separately. Gilbane Bldg. Co. , 664 F.3d at 594. While the duty to defend is broader than the duty to indemnify, in some cases the same factors that negate the duty to defend will also negate the duty to indemnify. See Northfield Ins. Co. v. Loving Home Care, Inc. , 363 F.3d 523, 527-28 (5th Cir. 2004) (citation omitted); see also Farmers Tex. Cty. Mut. Ins. Co. v. Griffin , 955 S.W.2d 81, 84 (Tex. 1997).
1. Duty to Defend
In Texas, a district court determines an insurer's duty to defend by following the eight-corners rule. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v. Graham , 473 F.3d 596, 599 (5th Cir. 2006). Under this rule, the Court examines only the allegations in the underlying petition and the insurance-policy's language to determine whether a duty to defend arose. Id. at 600. The Court's assessment, however, remains limited. It cannot read facts into the pleadings, look outside of them, or speculate as to factual scenarios that might trigger coverage or give rise to ambiguity. Gilbane Bldg. Co. , 664 F.3d at 596-97. If the petition's facts, taken as true, potentially raise a coverage claim under the policy, an insurer becomes obligated to defend the insured. Colony Ins. Co. v. Peachtree Constr., Ltd. , 647 F.3d 248, 253 (5th Cir. 2011) (citing GuideOne Elite Ins. Co. v. Fielder Rd. Baptist Church , 197 S.W.3d 305, 308 (Tex. 2006) ). Any doubts are resolved in the insured's favor. Graham , 473 F.3d at 602.
2. Duty to Indemnify
Under Texas law, the duty to indemnify is based upon the actual facts that underlie the cause of action and terminate in liability. Northfield Ins. Co. v. Loving Home Care , 363 F.3d 523, 528-29 (5th Cir. 2004) (citing Canutillo Indep. Sch. Dist. v. Nat'l Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, Pa. , 99 F.3d 695, 701 (5th Cir. 1996) ). In general, Texas law only considers the duty-to-indemnify question justiciable after the underlying suit is concluded unless, ""the same reasons that negate the duty to defend likewise negate any possibility the insurer will ever have a duty to indemnify."" Id. (quoting Griffin , 955 S.W.2d 81, 84 (Tex. 1997) ).
IV. ANALYSIS
The crux of this case requires the Court to identify the point along the chronology of interaction between Lonergan and Landmark at which the claim was reported in the manner required by the professional-liability policy. Landmark argues that Lonergan only so reported the claim on March 12, 2017, when she transmitted a letter to Landmark demanding coverage in connection with the underlying state-court lawsuit and attaching the state-court order compelling mediation. (Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 39) 11.) That would mean that Lonergan would not have properly reported the claim under the 2015 Policy, whose reporting deadline expired on June 9, 2016, and would not have been entitled to coverage under the 2016 Policy because it related to an occurrence preceding the 2016 Policy's effective date. The Court agrees with this argument.
A. The Duty to Defend
At the outset, it is undisputed that both policies are of the claims-made-and-reported variety. (Interv. Defs.' App'x to Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 7; (Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. 80.)) That means that a claim must be made against the insured during the policy period and the insured must also notify the insurer of the claim during that same period to receive coverage. Matador Petroleum Corp. v. St. Paul Surplus Lines Ins. Co. , 174 F.3d 653, 658-59 (5th Cir. 1999).
1. Assessing the Claim's Subject Matter
An examination of the substance of the underlying state-court petitions and Lonergan's 2015 Policy does indicate that a duty to defend would have arisen in this situation. Here, an explanation of the nature of Lonergan's actions becomes instructive. In the underlying state-court action, Intervenor Defendants alleged that Defendants were professionally negligent in performing their responsibilities as title agents and closers for the loan transaction. (Pl.'s App'x in Support of Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 33.) More specifically, Defendants 1) never notified Intervenor Defendants that Blount was a convicted felon; 2) did not witness the signing of documents by Blount involving the Bank-of-America escrow account and failed to disclose that fact to Intervenor Defendants; 3) did not disclose that N & J owned no interest in the Coombs Creek Property; and 4) failed to ensure that critical documents were properly executed and acknowledged. (Id. )
When these alleged negligent acts are analyzed against the 2015 Policy's provisions, the Court concludes that three of these allegations would potentially amount to viable claims. The remaining allegations' subject matter would fall under the rubric of ""Professional Services"" as defined by the 2015 Policy. Those services are described as ""only services performed for others by an Insured as an escrow agent, lawyer, notary public, administrator, conservator, executor, guardian ad litem, arbitrator, mediator, trustee, and title insurance agent."" (Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 48.) There is no dispute that the pleadings allege that Defendants acted as escrow agent and lawyer regarding the underlying fraudulent real-estate transaction and that those actions implicate the policy's ""Professional Services"" provisions.
2. Assessing Notice of the Claim to Landmark
However, just because a claim's subject matter falls under an insurance-policy's provisions does not necessarily make the claim viable. Because this case involves a claims-made-and-reported policy, the insurer must also be notified of the claim during the policy period to receive coverage.
Matador , 174 F.3d at 658-59. Because the claim was untimely, that is, Defendants did not properly report it to Landmark during the policy period, the Court concludes that Landmark possessed no duty to defend Defendants in the underlying state-court action.
Defendants argue that Lonergan's inclusion of a claim supplement in April 2016 was sufficient to place Landmark on notice of a claim's being filed within the 2015 Policy period--triggering its duties to defend and indemnify. (Interv. Defs.' Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 47) 6.) However, the 2015 Policy provisions belie this argument.
To be considered a ""claim"" under the policy, a request to defend and indemnify must amount to ""a written demand for monetary or non-monetary relief."" (Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 49.) Since the term ""demand"" is unambiguous in the 2015 Policy, the Court applies its plain meaning. Puckett v. U.S. Fire. Ins. Co. , 678 S.W.2d 936, 938 (Tex. 1984) (""When there is no ambiguity, it is the Court's duty to give the words used their plain meaning."") Black's Law Dictionary defines ""demand"" as the ""assertion of a legal or procedural right.""
It is this assertion of a legal or procedural right that the Court looks for when assessing the text of Lonergan's claim supplement. That supplement states:
September 2015 - Suit filed against Firm (as title agent), Title Company, Borrower(s), and Guarantor by Lender to the transaction-Regarding non-payment of loan by Borrower; alleged fraud and negligence-Discovery proceeding with Gaylene Rogers Lonergan's deposition being taken; Settlement talks are in process and Borrower is in process of paying outstanding amounts due Lender which will result in full release of all parties with no further liability.
(Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 111.) It is clear that the supplement contains no assertion of a legal or procedural right. What it does contain is a concise synopsis of the underlying dispute sufficient to apprise Landmark of its subject-matter and progress but remains devoid of a coverage request under the 2015 Policy. The Court does not consider this submission as sufficient to satisfy the definition of a ""claim"" per the 2015 Policy's own terms and, therefore, it amounts to nothing more than an informal communication to Landmark about ""an incident, occurrence or offense that may reasonably be expected to result in a [c]laim. "" (Id. at 50 (emphasis added).)
This holding aligns with others issued by federal circuit and district courts nationwide. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit has held that information contained in a renewal application that did not impart effective notice of a claim to an insurer did not trigger the obligation to defend under a claims-made policy where that information did not address a claim or potential claim within the meaning of the policy . F.D.I.C. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. , 993 F.2d 155, 159 (8th Cir. 1993). Likewise, the Tenth Circuit similarly determined that information contained in an insured's renewal application did not amount to the notice of a claim or potential claim that was required to trigger coverage obligations under a claims-made-directors-and-officers policy. LaForge v. Am. Cas. Co. of Reading, Pa. , 37 F.3d 580, 584 (10th Cir. 1994). More recently in Am. Cas. Co. of Reading, Pa. v. Continisio , 17 F.3d 62 (3d Cir. 1994) the Third Circuit held that an insureds' submission of a renewal application for a claims-made policy did not satisfy a policy requirement that insureds give timely written notice of claim at a specified address. Atlantic Health System, Inc. v. National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh , 463 F. App'x 162, 167-68 (3d Cir. 2012). Such case law confirms the rationale in this instance that a renewal application's submission cannot trigger rights and obligations to defend an insured where such application did not provide claim-conforming language that would signal to an insurer that the insured is seeking intervention.
Moreover, Lonergan did not forward any suit papers along with her application that would have conveyed that she was attempting to transmit more than just a synopsis of the underlying suit. ""[T]he Supreme Court of Texas has consistently held that an insurer has no duty to defend or to indemnify an insured unless the insured forwards suit papers and requests a defense in compliance with the suit's notice-of-suit conditions."" Hudson v. City of Hous. , 392 S.W.3d 714, 725 (Tex. App. 2011). Without such papers and claim-conforming language, Landmark owed no duty to provide Lonergan's unsought defense. Nat'l Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh v. Crocker , 246 S.W.3d 603, 610 (2006) (""Insurers owe no duty to provide an unsought, uninvited, unrequested, unsolicited defense."").
Intervenor Defendants oppose Landmark's motion on the theory that the 2015 Policy's reporting provision should be afforded its plain meaning and, by doing so, the provision contains no limitations as to how an insured would notify Landmark of a request to defend and indemnify. (Interv. Defs.' Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 47) 22-25.) Under this construction, Intervenor Defendants argue that Texas courts ""have long held that the plain meaning of ""report"" is, quite simply, 'something that gives information', 'to convey or disseminate information,' 'any statement of fact,' and 'information provided or conveyed.' "" (Interv. Defs.' Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 47) 22 (internal citations omitted).) Therefore, Defendants insist, Lonergan's inclusion of a description of the state-court action in her April 2016 claim supplement amounts to a claim's being ""reported"" under the 2015 Policy since it conveyed basic information about the underlying lawsuit.
This theory is unpersuasive for two reasons. First, Texas law requires that a court ""examine and consider the entire writing in an effort to harmonize and give effect to all the provisions of the contract so that none will be rendered meaningless."" Seagull Energy E & P v. Eland Energy , 207 S.W.3d 342, 345 (Tex. 2006) (emphasis original) (internal quotation and citation omitted). Put more directly, courts do not read contractual provisions in isolation from one another. In re Ford Motor Co. , 211 S.W.3d 295, 298 (Tex. 2006) (per curiam). ""Nor do [courts] consider only the [terms] favoring one party and disregard the remainder."" City of Keller v. Wilson , 168 S.W.3d 802, 811 (Tex. 2005).
While the plain-meaning definitions supplied by Intervenor Defendants certainly apply to ""reporting"" in this instance, the provision, itself, contains limiting language through its incorporation of the term ""claim."" The Court interprets these terms to mean that whatever information is conveyed to Landmark within the 2015 Policy's temporal term must be reflected in language consistent with its definition of ""claim."" In other words, the insured must convey the information couched in language that requests intervention in the matter. That language is missing in the description Plaintiff used in describing the state-court case to Landmark in this instance.
Moving beyond the reporting provision's language, the Court has identified further terms that narrow the scope for reporting a claim under the 2015 Policy. The contract's ""Notice-of-Claim"" condition requests that all claim information directed to Landmark be sent to its claims department via mail or e-mail. (Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 50.) The Court interprets this provision to mean that the conveyance of claim-coverage information under the reporting policy's terms must be directed to the claims department in the required format to provide adequate notice of a claim's filing. The record simply does not indicate that Lonergan did so in this situation; her supplement merely conveyed information about the state-court lawsuit but did not amount to a reported claim under the 2015 Policy.
Second, the Court is dissuaded from following Intervenor-Defendants' theory because of the comprehensive effect its impact would have upon insurers. Adopting this rationale would essentially allow insureds to ""report"" claims in a myriad of ways beyond those stipulated to in professional-liability-coverage agreements. This would mean that insurers would have to comb thoroughly through any transmission received from an insured to assess whether even the mere mention of a possible actionable claim was contained in its contents. Such a reality would eviscerate the lines between claims, underwriting, and other intake departments and force insurers to act like overprotective parents reflexively checking in on their broods to assess whether their intervention was needed in response to every disagreement brought to their attention. The Court declines, as others have, to adopt this rationale. See Continisio , 17 F.3d at 69 (""We join a growing line of cases prohibiting an insured from insisting that its insurer's underwriting department sift through a renewal application and decide what should be forwarded to the claims department on the insured's behalf.""). Because Lonergan did not provide effective notice until March 2017, there is no coverage under the 2015 Policy.
B. Duty to Indemnify
Unlike the duty to defend, the ""facts actually established in the underlying suit control the duty to indemnify."" D.R. Horton-Tex., Ltd. v. Markel Int'l Ins. Co. , 300 S.W.3d 740, 744 (Tex. 2009). The ""insurer's duty to indemnify depends on the terms of the policy."" Id. If the policy fails to provide coverage for the claims made in the underlying suit, an insurer possesses no duty to indemnify its insured. Mid-Continent Cas. Co. v. Castanga , 410 S.W.3d 445, 450 (Tex. App. 2013) (citing W. Heritage Ins. Co. v. River Ent'l , 998 F.2d 311, 315 (5th Cir. 1993) ). Under Texas law, when the insurer relies upon a policy's exclusions to preclude coverage, the insurer bears the burden of proving that one or more of those exclusions applies. Id. (citation omitted).
Having determined that Lonergan's April 2016 claims supplement did not amount to adequate notice under the 2015 Policy, the Court concludes that Landmark has proven that the policy's exclusions preclude coverage under either version regarding any duty to indemnify. Concerning the 2015 Policy, Lonergan did not file a notice of claim regarding the underlying state-court lawsuit during this policy period. It follows that Plaintiff's 2017 formal claim for defense and indemnification would be excluded by the 2015 Policy's ""Covered-Services"" provisions that mandate that the claim ""is first made against the Insured during the [p]olicy [p]eriod, and reported to [Landmark] no later than thirty (30) days after the end of the [p]olicy [p]eriod...."" (Interv. Defs.' App'x to Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 45.)
Likewise, Landmark possesses no duty to indemnify under the 2016 Policy. That is because two exclusions bar Lonergan's request from becoming actionable. Exclusion G prohibits:
[a]ny alleged act, error, omission, Personal Injury or circumstance likely to give rise to a [c]laim that an Insured had knowledge of prior to the effective date of this policy. This exclusion includes, but is not limited to, any prior [c]laim or prior [c]laim or possible [c]laim referenced in the Insured's application.
(Id. at 48.) Exclusion G bars Landmark's duty to indemnify because Lonergan's March 2017 request relates to a possible claim referenced in her 2016 application prior to the 2016 Policy's effective date of May 8, 2016.
Still further, Exclusion V would also preclude Landmark's obligation to indemnify in this situation. This exclusion bars indemnification for:
any [c]laim or litigation against any Insured occurring prior to, or pending as of the inception date of this policy including (but not limited to) [c]laims, demands, causes of action, legal or quasi-legal proceedings, decrees, or judgments; or any subsequent litigation or [c]laims arising from or based on substantially the same matters alleged in the pleadings of such prior or pending litigation; or any act, error, omission or [p]ersonal [i]njury of any insured(s) which gave rise to such prior or pending litigation or [c]laims.
(Id. at 49.) Because the underlying state-court litigation was initiated in July 2015 it falls outside of the scope of the 2016 Policy because it was pending as of the 2016 Policy's inception date. Therefore, the Court concludes that there are no circumstances under which Landmark would have a duty to indemnify in this situation.
V. CONCLUSION
For the reasons explained above, the Court GRANTS Landmark's motion for summary judgment (doc. 38) that it possessed no duty to defend or indemnify Defendants concerning the underlying state-court lawsuit.
This case involves a complex underlying dispute concerning a real-estate-transaction scam. Much of the factual background to the scam is immaterial to the current issues before the Court. Therefore, the Court only includes as much factual background as is necessary to promote the parties' understanding of the Court's resolution of the motion.
Landmark is technically a subsidiary of RSUI Group, Inc. (""RSUI""), that has no employees. All professional liability policies are issued as Landmark policies, but RSUI remains the parent company. (Interv. Defs.' App'x to Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 170.)
The Court notes that Lonergan filed the supplement in response to question 17 in both applications. That question, however, asks whether the firm or any of its members or former members has provided services relating in any way to a security or to activities or transactions subject to the Securities Act of 1933-34. In both instances, Lonergan answered in the negative which would not trigger a claims-supplement's submission. In reviewing the application, the Court recognizes that Lonergan's claim supplement is clearly responsive to question 24's prompt. (Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 73, 111.)
The letter also pointed to correspondence between Lonergan and Landmark on August 2, 2016, in which Landmark purportedly discussed only the alleged claims against Lonergan and the facts necessary to those allegations. The letter, however, was not included in the record currently before the Court.
Landmark also asserted that a variety of the Policy's substantive provisions would not cover Lonergan's claims even if the claim had been reported in a timely manner. (Interv. Defs.' App'x to Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 137.)
The Court determines that Policy Exclusion L would exclude coverage concerning the circumstances surrounding Lonergan's notarization of Blount's signature on the escrow agreement. Exclusion L prohibits coverage for any claim arising out of ""[t]he notarization of a signature without the physical presence of the signator before the Insured."" (Pl.'s App'x to Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 40-1) 48.)
Demand , Black's Law Dictionary (10th ed. 2014).
The Court notes the contrast between the text of Lonergan's April 2016 claim supplement and her March 12, 2017 letter to Landmark requesting coverage. The letter states that ""[p]ursuant to the terms of my Lawyers Professional Liability Coverage, I am forwarding a request for coverage in connection with an existing lawsuit ...."" and definitively invokes Defendants' coverage under its 2016 Policy. (Interv. Defs.' App'x to Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 126.)
The issue of whether a claim supplement contained in a professional-insurance-coverage-policy application can constitute a notice of claim has remained unaddressed by both Texas courts and the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
For ease of reference, the reporting provision states that Landmark will provide services if the [c]laim is first made against the Insured during the [p]olicy [p]eriod, and reported to [Landmark] no later than thirty (30) days after the end of the [p]olicy [p]eriod...."" (Interv. Defs.' App'x to Opp'n to Pl.'s Mot. for Summ. J. (doc. 48) 9, 13, 14.)
Because the Court has determined that Lonergan did not provide adequate notice of claim under the 2015 Policy, an analysis of the notice-prejudice rule is unnecessary here. Prodigy Commc'n Corp. v. Agric. Excess & Surplus Ins. Co. , 288 S.W.3d 374 (Tex. 2009).